Privilege Escalation
During a penetration test, we often
gain an initial foothold on a system
as a standard or non-privileged user.
In these cases, our next step is
to gain additional access
rights to demonstrate the full
impact of the compromise.
This process is referred to as
Privilege escalation
and it is a necessary
skill as “direct-to-root”
compromises are rare in
modern environments.
While every target can be considered
unique due to differences in OS versions,
patching levels, and
various other factors,
there are some common
escalation approaches.
To take advantage of these, we will
search for misconfigured services,
insufficient file permissions,
kernel vulnerabilities,
and vulnerable software running
with high privileges, to name a few.